README.md, before:

# euclid labeller, and euclidaug augment engine
Euclid object labeller for object detection training purposes based on Python. Tested on Linux, Windows, and Mac.

- Supports Kitti format
- Supports Yolo darknet format (Generates bounding boxes, as well as training list file)

Dynamic selection of format is now supported.

Optimised box selection using keyboard shortcuts.

# Typical object labelling workflow using Euclid:

Create a folder containing the images
 
- Ensure images are of uniform (not too big) shape using a command for resize like below. (Linux)

Resize all jpg images to 256x256, rename to sz-256-<original-name>.jpg

  `for file in *.jpg; do convert $file -resize 256x256 sz-256-$file; done`

- `$python euclid.py`

- Select the folder containing the images

- Euclid will show the first image in the folder.

- Select the class ID, and start labelling. Once done for this image, move to the next image, till all imagea are done.

- Euclid also generates a supplementary file "train.txt", containing the class ID and full path of training file. This can be used in YOLO format training.

# YOLO training and detection.

Refer below link for YOLO training and detection on Linux and Windows.

https://github.com/prabindh/darknet

# Euclidaug augment engine

Refer to euclidaug folder and requirements.txt for augmentation engine

Purpose:
 To significantly augment availability of annotated data,
 specially 2D shapes for object recognition.
 Targeted for  Yolov2

 How to run:
 - Place all object png images in the folder 'objects' (should be named 0.png, 1.png, .. for each object class)
 - Place all background png images in the folder 'bg' (can be any name)
 - Update cfgWidth, cfgHeight, numClasses - in the script, to match the framework requirements
 - Invoke this script as "python <script> <object-folder-name> <bg folder name>"
 - output image files will be written to 'output-images' and 'output-labels'
 - Note: The labels are in Yolo format

# Dependencies

 Python 2.7
 `pip install pillow`
 `pip install image`
 Python 3
 Python 3 + Pillow on Ubuntu, do the below
 `sudo apt-get install python-imaging-tk`
 `sudo apt-get install python3-pil.imagetk`

# Converting to TensorFlow format
After labelling the images, the labels can be read and converted to TFRecord using Python scripts available in Tensorflow, using tf.train.Example and tf.train.Features. Note: Yolo and TF share the same bounding box notations (normalised).

# Who uses

https://github.com/dpogosov/yolo_kfm
https://github.com/suji104
https://github.com/VanitarNordic
among others

Commit message:

Adding example code for euclid augmentation

README.md, after:

# euclid labeller, and euclidaug augment engine
Euclid object labeller for object detection training purposes based on Python. Tested on Linux, Windows, and Mac.

- Supports Kitti format
- Supports Yolo darknet format (Generates bounding boxes, as well as training list file)

Dynamic selection of format is now supported.

Optimised box selection using keyboard shortcuts.

# Typical object labelling workflow using Euclid:

Create a folder containing the images
 
- Ensure images are of uniform (not too big) shape using a command for resize like below. (Linux)

Resize all jpg images to 256x256, rename to sz-256-<original-name>.jpg

  `for file in *.jpg; do convert $file -resize 256x256 sz-256-$file; done`

- `$python euclid.py`

- Select the folder containing the images

- Euclid will show the first image in the folder.

- Select the class ID, and start labelling. Once done for this image, move to the next image, till all imagea are done.

- Euclid also generates a supplementary file "train.txt", containing the class ID and full path of training file. This can be used in YOLO format training.

# YOLO training and detection.

Refer below link for YOLO training and detection on Linux and Windows.

https://github.com/prabindh/darknet

# Euclidaug augment engine

Refer to euclidaug folder and requirements.txt for augmentation engine

## Purpose:
 To significantly augment availability of annotated data,
 specially 2D shapes for object recognition.
 Targeted for  Yolov2

## How to run example objects (part of the tree):

Assuming euclid is cloned at c:\xxx, run the below command:

python euclidaug.py C:\xxx\euclid\euclidaug\sample-objects C:\xxx\euclid\euclidaug\sample-background C:\xxx\euclid\euclidaug\train-sample.txt

Info: Added [3] object images, Max obj/class of [1]
Info: Added [1] base images
Info: Beginning [11] images @ 0.421875 (sec)
...........
Info: Completed @ 0.265625 (sec)
 
 How to run adding new classes:
 - Place all object png images in a directory organised by IDs (for 3 classes, folders should be named as 0,1,2)
 - Place all background png images in a folder (can be any name)
 - Update cfgWidth, cfgHeight, numClasses - in the script, to match the framework requirements
 - Invoke this script as "python <script> <object-folder-name> <bg folder name> <training filename>"
 - output image files will be written to 'output-images' and 'output-labels' and training list file will be written
 
 - Note: The labels are in Yolo format

# Dependencies

 Python 2.7
 `pip install pillow`
 `pip install image`
 Python 3
 Python 3 + Pillow on Ubuntu, do the below
 `sudo apt-get install python-imaging-tk`
 `sudo apt-get install python3-pil.imagetk`

# Converting to TensorFlow format
After labelling the images, the labels can be read and converted to TFRecord using Python scripts available in Tensorflow, using tf.train.Example and tf.train.Features. Note: Yolo and TF share the same bounding box notations (normalised).

# Who uses

https://github.com/dpogosov/yolo_kfm
https://github.com/suji104
https://github.com/VanitarNordic
among others
